Up/Down Arrows: The up and down arrows on your keyboard move through your last used commands. 
So, if you wanted to run the second to last command you ran, just hit the up arrow twice and hit Enter. 
You can also edit the command before you run it.

Ctrl+Left and Ctrl+Right: Hitting Ctrl and the left or right arrow keys jumps between arguments in your command. 
So, if you had a typo in the middle of the command, you could jump to it quickly with Ctrl and a few taps of the left arrow key. 
Note that on Mac OS X and Windows, this shortcut is Esc+B and Esc+F instead. This is pretty awkward, but OS X users can change 
it from the Terminal's preferences if they so choose.

Home and End: The Home and End buttons on your keyboard move your cursor to the beginning and the end of the currently typed 
command, respectively. This is useful if you've, say, typed in a command but realize that there's a typo in the first word. 
Instead of holding down the left arrow key, just hit home and correct it. You can also do the same thing with Ctrl+A and Ctrl+E, 
respectively (on Mac OS X, Ctrl+A and Ctrl+E are the only way to do this).

Ctrl+U: This clears the entire line so you can type in a completely new command.

Ctrl+K: This deletes the line from the position of the cursor to the end of the line.

Ctrl+W: This deletes the word before the cursor only.

Ctrl+R: This lets you search your command history for something specific. For example, if you wanted to search for the recent commands 
that included nano, you would hit Ctrl+R and type nano. It would show your most recent command, and you could use the up and down arrows 
to cycle through your history of commands using nano in them.

Tab: One of everyone's favorite shortcuts employs Tab to autocomplete a line of text. So, say you wanted to type cd ~/Dropbox/, you 
could just type cd ~/Dr, hit Tab to autocomplete opbox, and continue on with your day.

cd ../Play: This also works if you're typing out longer paths. Say you're in ~/Documents/Work and you wanted to be in ~/Documents/Play.

cd -: Another good shortcut is the dash (-). This will move you back to your last working directory.

sudo !!: One of the most useful shortcuts is using !! to represent the last command you ran. This is useful in a ton of situations. 
For example, if you run a command that needs root privileges but forget to add sudo to the beginning, there's no need to retype 
the command.

!cat: If the command you want to run is a bit further back in your history, you can use the bang in conjunction with the original 
string to find it.

!cat:p: If you just want to see what the last cat command was, you can instead run. This will print that command and add it to 
the end of your history. If you decide you then want to run it, you can just type !! and hit Enter.
This will print that command and add it to the end of your history. If you decide you then want to run it, you can just type !! 
and hit Enter.




